---
title: 進階文法W7
tags: 進階文法
categories: 文法學習
date: 2024-11-12 00:00:00
---
進階文法課程-第七周
<!-- more -->

# 進階文法W7

## PRETEST: What do I already know?


1. It's so noisy right now. Everyone shouting and making a lot of noise in the halls. (Ch. 1)  

2. I haven't been in this town very long. I just get here two weeks ago. (Ch. 2)  

3. I'm really glad you to come to my hometown next year. (Ch. 3)  

4. Why were you deciding to become a nurse? (Ch. 1)  

5. I am in Australia for the last four months. During this time, I had done many things and saw many places. (Ch. 2)  

6. By the time I graduate from college, I will have taken out several student loans. (Ch. 3)  

---

## 時態總複習 - 題目
### Malia's Busy Schedule  

1. Malia is in my evening speech class. She **is studying** speech ==this semester==. She **is also taking** some other night classes. Her classes **begin** at 6:00 ==every evening==.

2. ==Yesterday== Malia woke up at 5:00 A.M. She **had already gotten up** when her alarm clock **rang**.
    * 先起床(過去完成式)，然後鬧鐘才響(過去式)

3. Malia **works** at the mall ==during the day==. She **always eats** a big breakfast before she **leaves**. She **doesn't usually have** time for a lunch break.
    * 講常態，並出現alway -> 都用現在簡單式
    * not usually = seldom

4. Malia is in class every evening from 6:00 to 9:00. ==Yesterday== I **called** her at 6:30, but she **didn't answer** because she **was attending** class at that time. 
    * 打電話時，==正在上課== -> 用過去進行式
    * when I called her,she was attending classes.
    * while(As) she attending classes，I called her.
    * when + S 現在式(現在習慣or表示未來) / 過去式 / 現在完成式

    
5. I can't call her ==tomorrow night== because she **will attend** class then. 

6. On Saturday Malia ==didn't== have to work until noon. She ==took a short nap== from 10:00 to 10:30. I arrived at 10:15. When I **got** there, Malia **was sleeping**. She **had been sleeping** for 15 minutes ==by the time== I got there. 
    * 在我抵達(過去式)之前，他已經睡15min(過去完成進行式)
    * 強調我抵達當下，她正在睡覺 -> `用過去完成進行式` 

7. ==Right now== Malia **is sleeping**. She **fell** asleep ==an hour ago==. She **has been sleeping** ==for an hour==. 
    * 從過去一個小時前**睡到現在當下** -> `用現在完成進行式`

8. ==Tomorrow== is her first day off in weeks. After she **has** dinner, Malia **will meet** me and a friend. In other words, she **will have had** dinner ==by the time== she **meets** us.
    * After + 現在式(以現表未)
    * 在未來跟我們見面(現在式-以現表未)之前，先吃飯了(未來完成式) 

### **Tips**

**現在完成式 or 過去式 都在講過去**
- 現在完成式 -> 強調動作的完成
- 過去式 -> 強調過去的時間


---

## Exercise 2: 請選出正確答案  
### A Stay in Canada  

1. **b.** When I was in my country, I wanted to come to Canada for my studies.  
2. **a.** I wasn't nervous because I had cousins in Canada.  
3. **b.** I have been here for three months and I like it.  
4. **c.** I am going to study here for a year.  
5. **a.** When I return to my country, I will have been away for 15 months.  

---

## Exercise 3: 請使用 has, have, had, is, am, was, were, will 填入下列空格  
### The Weather  

1. It **is** snowing again. The roads **will** be slippery.  

2. Billy **has** never seen snow before. He likes trying to catch the flakes.  

3. It **has** been raining sideways all morning. When will it stop?  

4. Shhh! I **am** trying to listen to the forecast. It sounds like a heat advisory **will** be in effect later this week.  

5. When we **were** visiting my in-laws in India last month, there was a heat wave.  

6. It was like an oven. I **had** never been in such hot weather before.  

7. The lack of rain this month made the smog really bad. My eyes **have** been watering since I got here.  

8. When I **was** driving on the freeway, freezing rain just started to fall. It was quite scary.  

9. It **has** been a colder than normal winter. I'm ready for spring.  

10. I **had** never experienced such violent weather until I came here. The hailstones are huge. Sometimes they **are** the size of baseballs!  

---

## Exercise 4: 請找出並更正此篇文章的7處錯誤  
### An Immigrant's Wish  

In 1985, my parents **emigrated** to the United States from Brazil. They **had** never traveled outside of Brazil and were excited by the challenge of relocating to a foreign country. Eventually, they **settled** in California. My twin sister and I were born ten years later and **grew** up there. Last year, I **went** to Brazil for the first time to meet extended family. I had always **wanted** to learn more about my family's background. My dreams finally **came** true.  

---

## Exercise 5: 時態填空
### Vanessa's Reading List 

1. ==Three weeks ago==, Vanessa **started** to read *War and Peace*, a novel by Leo Tolstoy.

2. She **has been reading** it because her literature teacher recommended it.  

3. It is a very long novel, and it **has** many characters.  

4. She **hasn't finished** reading it ==yet==. 
    * yet / already / just -> 現在完成式
    * just now(句尾) -> 過去式

5. ==Since== the beginning of the summer, Vanessa **has finished** three other books.  

6. In her lifetime, she **has read** many famous novels, but this is the first Tolstoy novel she **has ever read**.  

7. After this book, she **will start** a popular French detective series.  

---

